---
title: VB.NET
key: vbnet
---

<!-- static -->
<!-- update_center:vbnet -->
<!-- /static -->


## Language-Specific Properties

Discover and update the VB.NET-specific [properties](/analysis/analysis-parameters/) in: <!-- sonarcloud -->Project <!-- /sonarcloud --> **[Administration > General Settings > VB.NET](/#sonarqube-admin#/admin/settings?category=vb.net)**

### Analyze Generated Code

To analyze tool-generated code (e.g. WCF code generated by `SvcUtil.exe`) for a specific VB.NET project, enable the "Analyze generated code" setting inside **Project > Administration > General Settings > VB.NET**. By default, tool-generated code files are skipped from analysis.

The detection of generated code is based on file name, special comments and attributes. The currently recognized values are in [GeneratedCodeRecognizer.cs](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-dotnet/blob/master/analyzers/src/SonarAnalyzer.Common/Helpers/GeneratedCodeRecognizer.cs).

## Scanner compatibility

To analyze VB.NET code, you need to use the [SonarScanner for .NET](/analysis/scan/sonarscanner-for-msbuild/) version 4.x or newer.

## Exclusions

Files to be excluded should be set in the project configuration. Excluded files are still going to be analyzed during the compilation and the results will be filtered according to the exclusion settings.

As an alternative, an `.editorconfig` file can be used to disable the analysis for a specific rule on a file or directory. This can solve performance problems on large files.

```
[Path/File.vb]
dotnet_diagnostic.Sxxx.severity = none
```

## Improving Performance  

You can enable parallel processing to speed up analysis and reduce overall build time by setting the following environment variable:
```
SONAR_DOTNET_ENABLE_CONCURRENT_EXECUTION=true
```
If you still have problems [this](https://community.sonarsource.com/t/47279) community thread may help you diagnose the issues.

## Known Limitations

Currently an error will be thrown when an issue is raised on a line of code containing the following pattern `\s+error\s*:` (i.e. one or more spaces, the string 'error', zero or more spaces and a ':' ) . This is a well known problem on the Microsoft side (see [issue](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/issues/5724/)). In order to work around this problem, analysis will skip issues reported on any line where the pattern is detected.

## Related Pages
* [Importing External Issues](/analysis/external-issues/) (VSTest, NUnit, MSTest, xUnit)
* [Test Coverage & Execution](/analysis/coverage/) (Visual Studio Code Coverage, dotCover, OpenCover, NCover 3)
* [SonarScanner for .NET](/analysis/scan/sonarscanner-for-msbuild/)
* [SonarScanner for Azure DevOps](/analysis/scan/sonarscanner-for-azure-devops/)
* [Analysis of product projects vs. test projects](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-scanner-msbuild/wiki/Analysis-of-product-projects-vs.-test-projects)
* [Troubleshooting guide for .NET code coverage import](https://community.sonarsource.com/t/37151)
